# genfoc -- game focus / text generator

In 2005 I was taking a game design class at [UT Dallas][] and tasked
with writing a "game focus"--essentially an idea for a video game.  At
the time, I was looking for a way to enhance my creativity and
discover new ideas, so instead of writing a single game focus, I
decided to write a program that could generate an infinite variety of
them.  The goal was never to generate a perfect, fully-developed game
idea, but rather to generate something interesting that could be
tweaked by a human into a useable idea.

It turned out to be completely hilarious, and that soon became the
primary end.

Here are some example game ideas generated by the program:

- This game is a hunting game. The game follows the adventures of a
  redneck scientist, a dirty proctologist, and a goat-riding
  hair-stylist. In the game, you must wield your cursed corkscrew in
  order to bring the chastity belt to Ralph the plastic surgeon.
- This game is a fighting game. The story centers on the conflict
  between you, a cruel blimp pilot, and an infamous baby. The purpose
  of the game is to invade Abu Dabi without being harmed by the fern.
- The game is a first-person shooter emphasizing unpredictable plot
  twists. Candi, an agnostic mathematician, is the main character. The
  purpose of the game is to save every geek from a muffin-eating
  electrician without letting the philanthropist escape from Ukraine.
- The game is a role-playing game with a gritty style. You star as an
  infamous soccer mom named Jason. The protagonist attempts to bring
  the tainted shadow diamond to Omaha, Nebraska.
- The game is a real-time strategy game set in Lichtenstein during the
  Industrial Revolution. The story centers on the conflict between
  you, a two-bit pimp, and an ambidextrous nurse. Gandalf tries to
  help the nurse destroy the heat-seeking rubber chicken.

*If you're not laughing yet, this may not be the project for you.*

## Usage

The `genfoc` binary reads its data file from standard input.  To
invoke it with the built-in game focus data file, do the following:

```sh
$ ./genfoc < main.gfd
```

## Data File Format

*To be explained.*

## Emacs Mode

The library also ships with an Emacs mode for editing the data files
Simply load the included `genfoc-mode.el` and run the `M-x genfoc-mode
RET`.

## Installation

Download (or clone) the source code and run `make` from the
command-line to build the `genfoc` binary.

I originally wrote this on Linux (probably Debian) and have most
recently built it on Mac OS X, so it should be fairly portable.

## License

Copyright © 2005 Cameron Desautels

Distributed under the MIT License.

[UT Dallas]: http://www.utdallas.edu
